okay we're good so kind of pissed off I
think I have a I think I have an
approach to prove improve the the method
so instead of trying to like group these
paths into like a line I think I should
just make each individual Extrusion its
own sweep because then I it simplifies
the code but I think it might be slower
but for right now I just need something
to
work so I'm just going to do it manually
in freecad which is amaz fread is really
cool actually because I like
wait because I like how it shows that
python thing at the
bottom so let's just um
okay
wait
what oh that's not perpendicular so he
did okay I see what he did he made
this okay then he drew a circle then he
constrained the circle to
the okay so can we just try to do that
wait we have a chat already
no the hell are we talking about F so
we're going to go here create new and
then wait can I see what he did because
I forget that I don't know the interface
so he went to
part part
design there's all these
workspaces wait what did he do
that's the sketch
tool create
sketch okay we're going to make it in
the XY
plane just going to draw a rectangle
freeads freeads tool is so funny you
can't use the I don't
know what did he do
there no
wait he clicked
on what the hell is that
oh this
one
okay why does that look so goofy
bro okay wait hold on can we wait
model at the sketch this and this can I
just click e please tell me I can just
click e okay that's nice
nice okay then wait oh Escape okay I
can't be clicking Escape all the
time
um okay
whatever okay YZ so we can finish this
create
sketch uh you hold alt and you do
YZ you do this and then I want to draw a
circle how do you draw a
circle create Circle I wish it showed
the hot keys
how do you how did he do
this what is
that that's
this create an edge linked to external
geometry wa so that give me a point
there oh that's project okay so now we
just need to okay I get it
wait take this sketch and we say this
point and this point are coincident
where's
coincident wait did that work
I honestly can't
tell I don't think that did it what is
this did it do it that's the coinci I
think it did it wait but this seems like
it's over
constrained what is that can we just
delete
that I mean I like that I like how
manual I like how manual freeat is but
obviously it's got a lot of downsides
but gen genuinely it's like actually
pretty good compared to Kad
dude Kad is just
like Kad is just confusing bro okay here
we go so now we're on the body and
that's
it so we we're done we go out we're back
in part design and then we
find additive pipe
okay have to sweep
along wait profile
is wait okay let's just see what he does
bro
oh okay wait
so no yeah that's crazy bro okay so wait
add edge and then we click
this did it actually do anything though
oh yeah it's changing
this so
great okay so now we did so let's just
say okay so now we have a part now what
we need to
do and let's just do it in
um does it is there a par there's no
like parametric timeline is
there it's kind of insane okay wait but
um how are we going to do this because
we need to so if if we're going to
change the algorithm then this thing
it's going to
be
uh it's going to be okay so let's just
say you have a single path segment and
it goes from 0 0 0 to and then uh to
like 1 2
3 then you're going to need uh one make
a plane
perpendicular
to the difference to the to the line so
this is point a and this is B
perpendicular to the line
AB at and
intersects a
then once you have
that load the
profile
[Music]
um as a
sketch on the plane
then the third thing is do the additive
pipe
from additive pipe
of the
profile to
be and so you should just get a ton of
line
segments okay
so freead python let's just look at okay
here we
go hi viewers and we're going to be
looking at C macros and freead in the
Python language and actually learning
the python langage from a free
perspective our first few videos we look
at creating a Mac row that converts
inches to millimet so we can use that in
our projects through this we will learn
about variables input and outputs seems
a little
basic
for for
dude I mean this thing is so cool freead
is actually baller who made free cat
okay all right so let's just
start wait what what how did it do how
did it do this
[Music]
where's the sphere
Okay so
okay so just do this
wait how did they get
that I think that this is an over
override thing because that doesn't
that's not standard
wait but it did
recompute how come this recomputed it
data and
view oh data and
view okay
cool actually kind of love its uh I kind
of love it's oh I kind of love this
dude I don't know why I like that so
much so
nice for
all right
they all use these BS man I don't know
about B reps
the part module is the most powerful
module in the whole of freead it allows
you to create and manipulate B
objects b stands for boundary
representation a b is defined by
surfaces that enclose and Define an
inner volume
unlike meshes B objects can have a wide
variety of components from planer faces
to complex yeah nerbs
bro I want to learn all about this
man wait what is cie
dude I love this old technology with 3DS
I love their goys bro they're so cute
man that's so fun
okay which allows for a wide range of
complex operations to be performed on
those objects such as Boolean operations
filling Lofts Etc the part module works
the same way as the mesh module you can
create AE freead object a part object
then add the part object to the freead
object okay okay feature okay
radius okay so it's going to be
um the volume of a sphere
is wait how do I calculate the volume of
how do I derive the the volume of a
sphere
how to derive the formula for this uh
the circumference and the volume of a
sphere for
oh
wait that's actually insane yeah it's
43s okay so we did 4/3 times do they
have a pi
okay so it all checks
out area why does that how does that
work this please tell me this
errors
wait wait
wait what what is the
area part
feature so you add a feature called my
shape then you take the actual shape and
you set it equal to
okay dude freead is actually sick man I
don't know why I counted out
freead it's actually so sick the part
module like the mesh modle also has a
shortcut part. show my
shape and it and it just does it over
and over
again but I can't
undo that's weird
by exploring the context of my shape you
will notice many interesting subcon such
faces edges vertices solids and shells
in a wide range of geometry operation
such as cut common oh wow that what an
awful name fuse what an awful name for
these
Boolean let me get more l
unfortunately I only have
like an hour and 15 minutes more to
stream before I have to go the draft
module this is Sketcher and draft that
also that also create part objects these
modules and additional parameters to
these modules add additional parameters
to the objects created or even Implement
a whole new way to handle the uh the
part geometry in
them there's so much
the draft module adds 2D parametric
object types
okay I just want to type it in so that I
remember some of
this can I hide
these oh wait can't I do this
VI is a view object
wait what did I call
it my
shape wait it doesn't have a view
object wait what is the type it's a
solid type but the
um box was a oh you know what it
is you need the shape
shape
object.
viewobject
dode okay so where's this where's this
freaking thing
here mvec equals a 4x4
okay
move but where is it bro
okay well it's
um position change so that's good I
can't see it
though is it
that what is
that is it just some on my screen
oh wait no but it is there's something
there that's
fun that's
awesome okay so that was a kind of good
intro
file
open so where did we put this we put
this in where's print Sim it's probably
in Rust because I'm a
and then you
do execute macro for
okay wait
so okay let's see that
video I think I actually saw these
videos I may have even done this on
stream damn so 12 I was
but what happened and that should be
a so a now equals a factor of
one Hi View and we/ by two now P
equals
a you see it's saying class topple so we
can do type
A is print our X
let's see
what bro
Jesus I me it was well it's only 3 years
ago I don't know about that man Hi View
and welcome to the Dude where's just
like a basic which also has this guy's
done 25 episodes of
this we need an enclosure for this
beautiful circuit
that's wow that's what we're going to do
today we're going to design the
enclosure in Python we're going to send
that python code to fread to turn it
into a virtual 3D object going slice
that virtual 3D object using Cura and
print it on a 3D printer you ready to
get started let's go you know sometimes
I wonder why I like doing things hard
way but I've convinced myself it's not
quite the hard way I challenging but I
enjoy it I I like I relish on the fact
that I don't know what my next step is I
like the journey I want to design most
frightened away creating this gave me
the start I needed to start working with
scrolling here called Power users Hub
and in here there's tons of details most
of which went way over my head but I did
zero in on one particular link scrolling
down here there's one function called
working with parts topological data
scripting when I click on this this gave
me the start I needed to start working
with python and I encourage you to take
a look because it has all the details of
the basics of creating all the
fundamental objects in freead using
python code the other resource I used is
when you actually pop open fread and you
click on the help item there is one
option in here to do an automatic python
modules documentation now I clicked on
this and immediately was frightened Away
by all of this jargon that shows up but
I brave it I braved it and I managed to
find the gem in here so scrolling down
quite a lot I found the part Library I
think I just asked it where to go uh
there it is yeah so right over here
there is a part library and if I click
on this part Library it had all of the
function calls within python that I
needed to understand for me to do this
sort of work so if you're brave I
encourage you to have these links
bookmark them and if you really want to
get into this you're going to need to
reference these but for now let's get
started with the design of this
enclosure so when you fire up fread
there is this python console at the
bottom which you can use to enter in
real time or commands writing Python and
how do we do the vector whatever keep
them in real time I didn't like that
apprach because the hold I'm get more
ice and
whatever for
okay now there is a python scpt right
inside freead but I didn't like that one
either because it it actually look kind
of bland it didn't have a lot of
functionality in it I wanted a more full
featured tool kit so I use notepad Plus+
you can whatever python you want the
cool thing about freead is up here
there's this thing called macro and you
can open and run any python script
created externally so that's the process
that we use every python script that you
create for freead is going to have some
housekeeping Basics first import the
libraries so I've imported two there's a
freead library and a part library and
you can see with import command here the
next thing I did is I created a new
document so I've give it a name and an
appropriate version number the next
thing I want to do is set the draw style
of our 3D environment now there's a
number of draw Styles you can choose I
like this one six it's the Shaded w-
frame I think but explore different ones
that you like you can change this number
to try and Sample different view Styles
I try my best to use comments everywhere
because first of all um it helps me
remember what I wrote and why I wrote it
because I'm going to forget it also is
helpful for this video so the first
comment of course just
weating in so there concept of an X axis
which the WID or left and there is
concept of axis in this Cas the or the
an object and height of the object not
only that but there hon F okay we go
this is what we want this concept of An
Origin which starts kind of in the
middle of of space and then finally
there's a concept of orientation do we
aim it that way do we aim it that way so
we're going to start off creating a very
simple box a rectangular box and you can
see the next comment talks about this it
says I want a box that's 124 mm wide in
the x axis it's got to be 134 mm deep in
the y- axis and it's going to be 20 mm
high in the Z axis I want this box
centered on the xaxis so it's going to
be in the middle so to speak eminating
from the origin I wanted to have an
offset of plus 12 on the y axis so our
object is going to be pushed back a
little bit like 12 mm and then I want an
offset of minus three on the Z axis
which means it's pushed down by 3 mm
that's my intent why am I including
these offsets that'll make sense later
now in order to create this object
that's what the next line comes in so I
used a function called part make box and
the first three numbers are the
dimensions of this box so 124 mm wide
134 mm deep and 20 mm High wait can can
we just can we just see what happens
when I okay
so I want to go
into wait how do I close this thing
oh here we
go okay all
right
um new document okay so we take
this um create a
sketch
here make a okay so wait so let's just
look at
this okay so this is all random stuff
wait
I just don't know where it saved
the wa wait so if I just do
see the the most annoying thing about
this is that they don't have
good override representation like if I
want to inspect this I really have to
inspect
it let's see what's in here
okay so I don't know about
that geometry geometry count ID in list
label okay
toggle
active wait what is it supposed to
take wait I I don't really care actually
okay so let's say
freead python
sketch Sketcher scripting here we
go all right yes there we
go let's do this so wait I'm going
to close this I'm going just make a new
document
Okay Okay cool so this made lines so
it's add ometry part. line segment so we
could can we do part dot so there's
Arc okay so what do we
need so let's do uh so let's delete all
of this okay so are we in the
Sketcher there's nothing in here sketch
oh wait LOL uh Sketcher I don't really
whatever okay so what we want to do
here is we want to make oh
actually wait can GPT just do it for me
I feel like it did do it
actually is that in
here okay cool so
um feature sweet so I don't know about
that let's just
uh just just write the code that um does
it doesn't do the sweep all it does is
make the sweep profile so basically that
slot hold on
um oh I deleted the I shouldn't have
deleted the paper though
okay where is
it
um oh I think I just deleted the
paper that's lame okay give me a second
okay I'm good all right so download oh
wait down no
okay so this is 3D Recon PDF I'm just
put in
downloads
okay here's the paper and um
what was I trying to do oh yeah the the
slot the this
geometry a slot oh but
they they
sweep whatever we don't really care but
I think
that let's see I think that it's correct
to actually have it down but who who
really who's really who's really GNA
okay so what we just need to do is we
need to make a rectangle oh wait oh my
gosh that's so
insane yeah the the productivity of this
is brutal okay so wait how do you make a
how do I say that
this wait can I do this wait can I make
a con is there such a thing as
construction
geometry does freecat have construction
geometry
freead
CAD construction mode in the Sketcher
Workman wait so I do I oh I'm in
Sketcher
G so if I make an l oh wait see that's
the problem is most of these are for
wait can I
do oh wait
oh oh oh oh you do GL geometry line okay
that's kind of a funny editor
GL okay so we have this but then oops oh
I keep I'm going to keep doing that okay
so this should be unconstrained so we
want to say that this and this are
midpoint where is midpoint oh it's in
here
coincident constrain a point onto
object so let's undo that because we
don't really want
that verticality horizontal parallel
perpendicular tangency
equal how do you do m
point how to do midpoint constraint in
free
CAD wait but where is it oh
okay wait so I do okay so I do this wait
is it what is coincidence C wait
what why Why didn't it do it
then there's no Auto do I have to do
this
no dude I'm so oh my gosh okay got to
keep my cool when I'm learning these new
programs
bro I don't understand why that didn't
work oh wait wait
wait Point onto object we need to do
that and then we need to
do I like that selection tool is
additive instead of like Fusion where
you got to hold control so now we want
to do this constrain symmetric
thing yeah bro what the
hell there we go
oh wait oh that shows the
problem oh jeez okay that's what you do
you just have to
nice dude I got to keep it as deep
purple 1337 that's
baller oh wait can we see this I want to
show you how to constraint to the center
of a line in freak ad we use this
Command right here the symmetric
constraint select it now select the line
that you want something to be centered
between so click this guy and let's
select this point right here so now this
point is in the middle wait can we wait
okay
undo oh my God what
happened okay so wait we select this
point and this line we do
this okay of these two of this line and
no matter how you change the size it
will continue to be in a center of that
line now this is a cooler way of doing
it than say solid works because you
don't actually need a Line to Center
between you just need two points so
let's zoom out
here I told someone that I have tried
three CAD programs
Fusion uh zoo and on shape but I've also
tried free CAD so I'm kind of like a cad
kind of like a cad Guru everyone wait
can we just delete 11 oh wait oh you
know what it does actually I think I
just um okay I like how you can manually
see all the constraints in a
list a lot of these CAD programs that
they make it so easy with the with the
keyboard shortcuts but they they don't
really show you okay so we can oh we can
move this so yeah all we need to do
right okay it was it was actually over
constrained but I feel like I feel like
these professional CAD to or like these
paid CAD tool I don't know if I want to
I paid but like closed Source
ones I feel like they would
automatically remove that constraint or
something so there's that and then we
just need to say this line and this line
are
also or wait what
about you got to get your data types
right okay there we go so we did
it
um I hate that it brings me back to
tasks I kind of don't like that because
I keep messing up on the UI so now we
just need to do the same thing so we're
going to oh wait and how do we make this
construction uh let's just redo all of
these fit all okay dude it's dude the
people who made this are such Vim heads
with the two actions thing man that's so
funny dumbass Vim users
bro
um okay oh that that this is actually
nice I like
that that's
cool leave
sketch view
okay wait didn't I see it
actually so blue is construction
geometry okay um so now we need to so
wait is it
toggled oh my gosh this Pro wait hold on
what what are all of these dude how do
we there we
go so we need a line oh wait is it GL
yeah okay
GL so wait let's just do this then we do
this and this then we we do s then we
do
um what is it C or o o okay so now this
thing is mid now we just
can how do we know when it's fully
constrain because this thing is not
fully constrained okay how do I do a
dimension
KD for constraint dude that's
Insanity wait how do we do fit all
dude this is so funny okay so it was K
D all right and then this is going to
be layer
height and this is going to be
04 is a layer height point no it's 0 2
right can I actually see should I open
up bamboo and check
back okay now we just got to zoom way in
and we get we still it keeps it so
that's good and then this width is going
to be nozzle diameter which
is4
okay wait can we do wait FV
VF oh it zooms you weigh the heck
out oh oh wait but that's just because
of this oh
no yeah that's whack okay but it's
all green so blue is construction green
is
constrained okay so now
how do they refer to things that's what
I'm
saying what
what wait why did he even modify
that that's
funny okay so wait if we finish
this we get out of this now we're back
in part design let's take can we take
make a
face does it actually have a notion of
extrude oh what the hell
happened
FV
pad
pocket it's got to be pad why they call
it pad who knows
oh
wait
um
wait open your chck shift
[Music]
they use all the they use like
terminology that's just like way
different than
um okay
so okay now that we did it we did a
basic Extrusion now uh I'm just going to
close all this
oh you can't select multiple
delete
delete oh you really going to have to
make me do this
bro all right
whatever so
annoying okay new document okay now
we're going to watch this so we're going
to create new sketch what did new sketch
do begin part design new sketch
okay okay so it made part design
body add object part design
body get document unnamed that's this
active active view. set active object PD
body heart design body but where what is
that name I don't really understand what
that
is okay so when I click on
this oh wow okay so that ran a lot of
code so wait no wait wait what
okay here we are here we
are
okay okay so this is where we
were end command part design new sketch
okay perfect now guey
selection I don't know why they're
commented out it's kind of weird but
guy. selection. add selection
okay so unnamed
body okay so I don't really know what
that I don't really know what
that okay get object new object sketch
or sketch so that's what I was looking
for and then and then it says get the
sketch and the
support get object XY plane and this is
just a default thing so is there a make
plane okay get object sketch map mode
what the hell is map
mode where's the actual official python
documentation
I think it's this
right is this real
dude yeah right that's what I'm saying
bro why why is this thing grade
out what the
hell
okay uh
bro this looks
good hello everyone it's Catherine from
learn engineering and today I want to
take a moment
dude
what is it going to be this AI person
Welcome to our
python that's what I'm saying bro what
the hell
um well so I why is mine gray out
bro okay python
automatic what is it called modules
documentation
mine's gray out
dude freead Basics where's just the okay
freead
manual I already read all that
power users
Hub where can I find the documentation
of the
freead Python p uh
module where is
it is that is that right please be right
dude I feel like it never
is
though that's what I'm saying bro okay
whatever freead python
docks is it just
this bro wait where freat on
GitHub or they use their own thing okay
that's pretty sick dude can can we uh
can we
see dude what a freaking Beast man these
guys they have like no followers and
they're like the top contributor some
insane
stuff okay freead is not
dead fread is one of these old school
libraries that still I mean it's getting
a lot you know it's
still it's not dead there's people
working on it um didn't fread just hit 1
I think fread just hit 1 oh good for
them good for them good for them okay uh
where is the I mean it's just a bunch of
bro there's there's got to be a
link oh here we go API
dude is the okay maybe this is this
seems like it actually so okay so we
want to go to App App
API okay can we just look freead map
mode
okay boy oh
boy and they're not using discourse
bro this course needs to like
cannibalize like they just need to be
like all right here's how here's how you
import all your old forms
cuz I'm convinced maybe this
wait
okay where was the okay wait this this
grade out
okay if I just go to the freead
repo I can't believe I'm wasting my life
on just trying to read the documentation
you
he a
documentation the freead manual the
python coding documentation wait this
just brings you to the power API
functions can I SP is this searchable
that's what I'm saying that's the worst
part of this is probably mesh mode wait
wait what's it called map map
mode part design
plane but what is a map
mode
there's there a lot of references to map
what is map mode
fread in fread map mode refers to how a
sketch or feature is attached to a
specific
face Edge Vertex or plane of a 3D object
this attachment defines the
position and orientation of the sketch
relative to other geometry or reference
planes okay wait didn't I write this
thing down you make a plane okay wait
first you take okay really before this
you need to make a uh can you just make
a line in space
I hope you can I mean honestly it
doesn't matter cuz two points two points
defines a line and then the orientation
of the other the plane point is uh
totally arbitrary
so you just pick zero whatever and then
you draw the
line oh but wait hold on if you let's
see you have one 00 Z and one two three
so let's draw
okay so you pick a
plane let's see and you just pick the
third point up here it's like
this with respect to this
plane you need to
project project it
oh and then you have a weird thing of
okay I think we should just keep
grinding through this
so okay new object sketch so let can we
just run this like let's see what let's
just run this again we'll go to the
model and just run it
again okay so it doesn't actually the
crazy thing is it doesn't actually
tell
you so what we want to do but okay what
I
was thinking about is you have two
points right and you want to draw a line
to them I guess the first thing I should
do yeah so you need to draw okay so the
first thing we actually need to do is we
need to make a
plane how to make a plane
uh with freead
python
wait
um no wait okay wait can we just see
what that does I like that it makes a
new document cuz then we'll just have a
bunch of
documents wait but what is a
plane can I okay I can create a sketch
on that in order to use part design you
need to have an active body in the
document
um wait okay
wait how how do I make a
line uh what I what I want to
do
okay the full thing of what I want to do
is I have a small rectangle sketch
profile or just some geometry that
defines a small circle and then I'm
going to have two points and I'm going
to want to uh take that profile and
extrude it from the first point to the
second point and uh I guess in order to
do this
in in another CAD software that I'm more
familiar with you would have to do
something like first
create a plane that intersects both
points and we'll call them A and
B um and then the orientation of that
plane doesn't really
matter
um and then you would draw
a uh you would make a plane I don't know
how exactly but you make the plane
perpendicular to the line between a and
b um and and it intersects point a then
you would have the the the plane and you
would be able to import or or just draw
the profile that you're sweeping and
then you could just click on the sketch
on that plane and the line and it should
work
but yeah I want to do it with
python okay and let's just ask at the um
let's wait for it but I just want to ask
cuz the thing is it's overly trying to
take my
advice let's read the code though okay
can we just see this I I just want to
see
this it just didn't do anything right oh
wait did it
run I feel like that didn't oh wait no
but we have to do
recompute no that didn't do
anything wa can we do
this
uh wait
oh there it
is wait why is it
one also why doesn't this tell
you more information about the
line yeah that's fine
um okay
but object object up equals abile
placement of align the rectangle to the
direction Vector
perpendicular
um wait
how can you be perpendicular to a
point wait did it already have it can we
just run it let's just see what
happens well did it but did it oh
FV wait FV hello take me home
oh my
God I think it oh it's definitely
perpendicular that's cool wait but I
don't understand how that
worked oh no no no this works but but
only it needs to be the difference
right yeah there we
go so how okay wait so can
we okay we'll have to go back through
this but this makes a lot of sense and
this is really working out way way
better than I thought it'
be oh it's already five bro oh my
God okay
so yeah so instead of this we need to
make it
um okay so let's start
over Okay wait actually I want
to
uh
okay
uh I'm using freead
I need to make a point or a line from
point A to B where A and B could be
anything then I need to make a small
rectangle that uh that
intersects point a and is perpendicular
to the line
AB oh wait uh
let's
see oh okay wait hold on or it'll
probably yeah there we go it's fine
wait in the XY
plane create a vector perpendicular to
the oh in the oh in create a
vector perpendicular to the line AB in
the XY
plane okay Define the size of the
rectangle
rect Center is equal to point a calate
the point make
wire make Point make
line okay so let's um just do
this wait what the hell
yeah this is uh not perpendicular
bro but just try to give it
[Music]
this that's it let's just see what
happens yeah see it doesn't know so
which is I
mean not
surprising
okay the
uh I think the problem is first off the
plane or the rectangle is not
perpendicular to the line
AB Chain of Thought works though that's
the thing
let's try
it damn
bro yeah wait but what did we have
before this did it what was that
one I think it's because I think it's
because it actually worked so let's do
this we copy this
and make this and I actually want to
do okay wait let's copy this
to
um I'm just going to call it sweep. Pi
wait so we have this but I actually want
to make this um not wait what was that
sound um oh you know what that was
probably GPT that's crazy they added
that all right so this is going to be
like six
-
2 um four
or wait what is that
sound
what okay
whatever wait is this the
wait can we
okay
um okay so all the
recomputes so we want to run
this so wait actually wait we want to
run this
what is
that it's so small can we make this
rectangle bigger right now
okay it's clearly
normal there so that's great
so we have a rectangle what what does
this code do so this code it it just
draws a line segment so there is just
such a thing as line segment that takes
two vectors
okay it adds a
line recompute the document to visualize
the line that's fine okay it takes yeah
just a rectangle that's standard stuff I
hate how much code this takes and they
all do it like that
um okay that's fine then it makes a wire
then it adds feature
I is this a name or what oh wait can we
just do pip install freead wait pip
install freead does this
work dude look at
so that's kind of a separate thing but
it's still so many instructions
man
for for
all for
all right now let's just do the sweep
does it did it wait oh it has it let's
just run
it oh
wait okay so what
happened is is part has yeah D totally
totally made that
up what what's in there dude part. make
box Circle compound
yeah I guess I get to the question is
what defines a sweep
um
for
for for
oh yeah
for
you
okay
so um
what was just
non-existent
wait wait this doesn't work what does
this
do oh wait no
wait oh it's calling make
sweep
yeah that's cuz it's just a okay so
actually I want to just
um give it
that is that where it's doing
it
cool wait make pipe shell I thought it
was oh yeah it is pipe pipe
shell subtractive
Lo subtractive
pipe is there additive
pipe there's definitely additive
pipe let's try it we probably have so
many
documents but who
cares all right so we're
getting we're getting farther
what is
this see I I feel like it doesn't tell
you anything about this thing
man oh yeah first
off okay wait I want to try this again
okay make
sketch
what what are you talking about
oh wow that's funny okay so yes we want
to do this then we want to do what
gr did I already know that I don't know
if I knew that oh but this
is right can we delete all
this okay yeah there's there's the
normal one so we want to just be done
with this and and we want to
pad um but okay wait we don't want to
have anything selected so we want to
select this
sketch wait I'm going to select this
sketch oh not pocket wait why is this
all the subtracted
stuff oh this is
pad so
um wait but how did it
know I have nothing selected let's make
another sketch wait hold uh
whatever let's make another sketch uh
here uh yeah let's still do it on here
gr here here then we close this now we
select this and we do
pad cannot use selected object selected
object must belong to the active
body oh wait oh wait wait hold on wait
if I do this and then I
pad must be long oh so that's specific
so it's not be the Active Body it has to
be belong to the active
body so what happened okay so when I
made a sketch it implicitly made a body
probably uh we can probably see that too
oh wait this is way
back but it probably made a body so now
yeah I want to select this sketch going
I do it again
oops okay so yeah just add selection so
then
okay all good so then we can pad and
this did a whole bunch of stuff
but I feel like the main thing was
probably just oh it's this oh this is
all the okay I get why they all the app
stuff or all the like view stuff rather
gets put in
there okay so we have yet to do an a a
sweep wait no we did a sweep right how
did it work it was additive pipe so okay
so let's just do it again now that we
know what's going on
uh so let's just do a new
document then a new sketch we're going
to do it on here and it's going to be
that
rectangle well oh wait does it have to
be smooth it probably does have to be
smooth but that's okay so we don't need
it centered or anything we just need to
make it um what is that that that thing
it's this we just and this is an
interesting sketch feature because I
don't see this a lot oh wait actually
oh this is okay that's okay so we just
need to do this and this are oh if you
miss yeah so it's a little bit harder
to yeah it's just a little bit poorly
tuned okay so now we have this now we
want a new sketch on the
oh on the YZ
plane it has to intersect it right
so um when we how do we move this
sketch wait we just edit it let's just
do the
line wait oh GL Jesus here then we do
this and this and then we select
s okay then we
say oh wait is it
that oh and then we just say that what
uh oh
that this point and this point are
K D no k o they're o wait but so oh jeez
that's silly as hell you have to do it
before the order of constraint
application ma matter I wonder if I can
pull it up right before the
um all those
tangencies oh I guess
not so okay let's go back before I add
the tangencies
uh yeah
GL
this okay then this this s okay then
this this o no yes this this
o wait
what oh this has some weird no that's
this verticality right can can you see
that from anywhere yeah vertical
constraint
is oh it's a coincident
here wait okay wait let's start
over oh wait how do you oh redo doesn't
even work that's great oh my gosh that's
insane okay
so wait gr R we draw a rectangle here to
here then we draw a g l
it should be modal bro these Vim guys it
should be modal bro oh wait undo
actually deletes the constraint that's
pretty sick so now we want s and then we
want o okay there we go so now that's
all we really need or
no no that's fine so now we need to make
a new sketch on this plane then we need
to do like this weird projection thing
right we we oh we want to take this oh
wait no no there's a okay I get
it it's this no
wait uh is it started with link I
think create external geometry okay yeah
then I can do
GC oh nice it doesn't even have it here
I feel like that's wild that it doesn't
have it there okay that so I think that
that made it so now we're done that's it
we're
good um so now what we need to do is
additive
pipe I don't get why these are all
shifted
bro where's my additive pipe how do I
search for it
wait is it oh it's that I'm dumb as hell
so the
profile wait the object is the profile
object did that did that change
anything you have to click on it and
then it I guess
it and then oh Corner trans that's
interesting so it doesn't have to be
smooth
actually it doesn't have to be smooth
that's cool oh wait wait since we didn't
add it we be able to figure that out so
path to sweep along object
this this oh wait no no no this this so
you have to do two steps so add edge
this okay and now we can change so what
does what does transform
do okay it makes a right angle there can
we just do this oh
wait we cannot do that
yeah see the thing is it's so easy to
manipulate space like those the
reference
planes make it really easy to start
doing stuff in um I don't know there's
probably a way to do it
but
um okay
so now that we
know oh wait why don't dude why am I
being such a
dumbass
Okay so
wait but how did it do
that oh
okay I'm just going to
say well let's just start over we're
just going to close it
all I'm going to just
reopen I also would like to use it from
outside of that editor cuz that editor
is kind of stinky I I mean it's nice
that it updates in real time
though okay all right come on so we make
a new document then we're in part
studio and this should run a bunch of
code okay now we want to make a sketch
then we want to make it in the XY plane
we want to do gr
R dude this is so smart just like giving
it the logs of
everything
um the interesting thing
is I guess one thing that I sort of
overlooked is in the definition of sweep
it doesn't have to move in One Direction
because we draw this circle in the
middle of the line pretty much uh okay
so this is good enough and then we just
going to uh finish that new C thing here
then we go over to this no not that this
and we go up and we click on that and
then we do
GC and we draw a circle tangent to that
then we get out of here and we click
additive pipe then we check this to here
then we uh check this onto
here add edge add
edge add edge is there is there any
thickness to that it's probably because
we need to do round Corner okay
and then add
edge okay so this is the full log of me
doing
it so copy
that
okay okay this is me doing in the guey
what I want to do with just Python and
it's it's this thing of I I drew this
path this in in this case it was made up
of multiple line segments but I only
really need it to handle one line
segment but it
basically
uh does the uh draw draws the profile it
draws the path the path which is a
rectangle and then it does the sweep or
additive pipe as they call
it let's see how much better it it
should it should do better honestly like
this is new information
I wish it defined it as
functions okay wait just write the code
in one go but also like write functions
and and generalize this because uh
uh there is no assumption on the
um the placement of the the points in
the sweep
path let's see bro it should be better
all right okay and it went like way the
other way with it I mean that's this is
I guess this is useful it's going to be
doing this a lot add line dis sketch
start Point end point yeah that's easy
oh and it actually creates the
vector okay that's useful I feel like
there's got to be these Pro these must
already exist man
okay it takes points profile type
rectangle wait
profile wait where is
Pro okay I want to run this thing man
oh this is insane wow this the yeah the
debug ability here is
brutal
[Music]
um what
let's hope that it was just
this I don't think this is going to get
me
but L one in run sweep and create sweep
um of create
sweep expected input sequence of
yeah for
oh
damn this part of it was way harder than
I thought I was going to
be
okay
um should I read through what I
did do he get a sense oh this is just
such to read though it's
actually better if I
um let's see if I just read it from the
top I'll get
it okay so first thing made a
body and it added a sketch to that
body um
okay then it okay then it what is it
what is it before you do
that actually kind of love this thing I
was just wondering what
is what is it set to
beforehand oh my God
these texts are so crazy
especially with python man so now we
have a new sketch right
wait it's in it's in
this wait what if I just do this
is it in unnamed oh it's in here
um wait no is that
mine that's got to be
mine yeah that's definitely mine okay so
okay we did
that um now we got to go back all the
way up here that's kind of
crazy
um oh wait so what do I want to do I now
want to look this
up Geo feature nothing right okay
fine
so new
body
sketch uh uh body
dot new object
sketch okay
then you set the
support and this is easy so this is
where so this is where where
we put our
plane so to define the line then somehow
we have to I guess we just do the math I
mean yeah I just want to put it at the
start how hard is that I'm writing the
code man
so
okay then we do this map mode thing bro
I don't know what map mode
is flat face I guess we'll just keep it
to as it is obviously
okay this is all gooey stuff then inputs
okay okay then it makes a Geo
list so then it then it okay wait okay
fair
enough add
wait oh okay this is the
okay fair
enough so all we need is a single line
segment
but um oh yeah so right but before we
need that we need
a can we just we don't need a why do we
need
that because we need to no presumably we
just don't even need to do this cuz
geometry doesn't need to this line
segment doesn't need to be a part of a
sketch I don't think
so then we do
constraining okay now we make this y z
sketch Okay add external so now okay now
new
sketch uh this is going to be the sweep
profile
wait
no sweep
terminology which is the
pro what is the terminology
here where 2D profile is swept along a
path okay so there's the profile and the
path oh yeah the spine right the profile
okay so this is the profile so now we're
making the the
profile
and we
um
wait
um wait what is this add external SK oh
wait wait oh add external right yeah so
now we
sketch o1 but when does it create that
though oh that's here so this makes
sketch o1 okay then we
do
um uh this and it adds a circle and then
a coincident
constraint now that's interesting
what I'm wondering here so then it does
add
geometry and then
uh add
constraint how does that work
right like how does it coinci does it
just search for other things that occupy
that exact coordinate or
something we'll have to figure that out
we'll have to figure that will we we we
actually
won't because just based on where we do
the placement using math it should be
[Music]
fine
for for
what need before you
go yeah I'll take like couple
you want me to
throw okay all right what you leav
probably uh 555 or six
I'm
uh oh yeah yeah yeah
yeah no for
okay
okay we got to figure this thing out man
I only
have 15 more minutes
so okay wait what else do we do cuz this
isn't actually The Sweep
part uh
um okay so it gets the body and it adds
okay so you then get
body then
add object and it's a pipe or add
pipe okay then you set the profile
then you do get uh or you get the
pipe.
profile
equals
sketch now that's interesting can I so
if I do let's just do wait I don't want
to lose my place though um but can you
have
two yeah of course you can how does it
know okay so here how does it know
it
know
which
to which uh
like
closed poly like what
closed I don't know whatever uh which
closed
uh what is the term I'm thinking of
bro Cur curve I'm just going to call it
a curve cuz curve can be I don't think
curve actually
is
um any closed path maybe probably path
is a better path doesn't have any
implication on the smoothness of it
whereas curve obviously
does um okay so how does it know then it
sets the visibility to fall that's
fine wait that was it that was the whole
thing
dude that's so
simple body you make a new body you make
a new object so wait what was the weird
part the weird part was probably this
stuff but okay let's just make uh
so so that
is hold on hold on oh wait are we all
the way back up there
so so this what this is doing is this
did the whole thing
right where did I add all the
edges no but if I go to
this oh what the hell wait isn't this
the one one oh no it's this one if I go
to
this it has the edges in there what if I
what if I just removed all the
edges is that going to
work oh wait can I just click on
them whoa
okay
so in this
case the um the edge chosen oh so yeah
you
manually choose but we're only going to
have one so this actually simplifies
things we're only going to have one
well it doesn't simplify because you
would just name them with the numbers
for more of them just like they do
crazy okay I need
to do this in code
now
so yeah so okay so we have some code can
we just fold all these oh wait and the
one thing is that okay the one thing is
that
um in here actually where did
it yeah so it did this in code
though wait can we just run this part of
it
so the question is if that actually
recreates
it because I have a
feeling wait did I do all that is that
old
oh no no I definitely did that this is
all part of just making a
rectangle I actually really
like in some ways that like this has
advantages of instead of having helper
functions and all that like it just
calling make wrecked you can see that
under the hood it's literally just your
your your most important things are just
basic geometry and constraints and it's
it's kind of cool it's like there's no
confusion how the rectangle stuff works
sweep
three okay I just want to save this this
one
works oh the alt scroll down doesn't
work okay so we're going to do this oh
my gosh what wait can I do it
again what
wait is that true
what what the is going on
bro I'm glad they add that cuz Kad dude
well I don't know but no Kad just makes
it impossible to freaking do anything um
okay so we're just going to run this
code okay
so I I mean is it really my problem to
fix that I mean unfortunately yes
probably wait
what I think I'm not supposed to import
app
dude that's Def definitely chat gbt
bro oh wait don't I have to do import
freead can we can we go to the official
things
again somehow what you want is never
open oh oh bro they just don't know
[Music]
wait what is
that dude what is that
sound
okay so something didn't work
right wait what what did work is the
question so first off this did not
work we don't care about the offs but
where are the
lines so let's read the
code so yeah as expected it didn't
work this
wait this should
work the oh the pro
wait make it Center run zero
wait I'm so surprised that I can't see
it though oh wait is that oh that's just
dude I'm so dumb bro does this
have re this has recompute at the end of
it but um oh wait oh you have to do all
of this okay this should work
it recomputes
it wait hold on did it make a new
document oh yeah see it just didn't
even that doesn't make any sense dude
let's just run them one at a time really
quick that's insane dude what is going
on dude what are these sounds man I'm
I'm going crazy
okay okay so we're going to do this as a
group which is
fine okay but oh it didn't do the new
body oh no no here we do new body and
then we do app. active do we set the
active document or does it does it
automatically do
it can we get the name of
it an import okay
cool active
document.
recompute
what does zero
mean cuz dude this should work
oh but you know what it's
probably no it just doesn't make a body
that's what I don't
understand don't I have
to wait
what is making sound I'm just going to
close this and reopen
it maybe
it's I don't
know is it in the settings I don't
actually want to open the settings
up
um this doesn't seem to make a body or
at
least show it in the gooey but I can see
that the new dock is
created no it's not adding body
okay let's do that that looks kind of
good Okay cool
so wait so
now now we have a body
okay
so okay
wait do we
have
oh
okay okay
okay please tell me that works
bro okay so wait this is all identical
okay let's just tell her what goes wrong
cuz this doesn't seem right
man oh
wait okay so we're getting
there it's um wait but okay it's in oh
the additive pipe is in here oh and it
turns the visibility of the sketch off I
don't like that
see that didn't wait oh
interesting it's actually a cool shape
should I print
this I want to print this dude let's
just cuz I got to leave let's just print
this fun thing okay I got to go get
what's currently on the so let's do okay
now we have this
fun wait is this
not okay how do I do a convex
Hall is there a way to take a thing in
freead and then just make the uh uh
convex
hole wait
shape okay wait how do we how do we set
the okay so wait we're almost there we
just need to set
the
um Corner
transition how do we do this cuz this
thing doesn't seem
to okay so wait let's save this cuz I
like
this
fun so how
come okay
so how can I set the corner transition
in python python of and actually wait
wait can we just get that object so get
object
this now we have this wait let's let's
say we're done with this
what the
hell okay
um wait what's the type of this this a
oh dude we got to go bro come on
please tell me this works I really want
to print this fun shape
out oh why is it being so bad
bro oh wait can we get just get the
shape.
shape oh hell yeah then we can just do
get convex hole is that what it
is no
way oh
shape equals convex hole
wait wait can we do that again okay what
is the what is shape okay shape equals
ap. shape okay then we run this damn
wait there's no such thing okay never
mind com shape comx whole shape
freead okay what's another
way okay I can't be okay wait I I just
want to
know if I were to okay
so is there a way to take a mesh and
then generate the con convex hole of the
mesh cuz maybe I'll just export this
part cuz it's not seeming to
work out of all possible options either
using freead or not using freead what is
the easiest way to take like a standard
STL file and then make the convex hole
of
it okay so let's try to export this body
so these don't work so it's this so we
now need to we need to export this
body so wait if we delete
this and then we just
export how do you
export select the
objects okay sick okay
sick
blender okay here we go this is what I
want hell yeah dude hell yeah okay wait
so now we just need to go to
here dude I'm GNA get this thing printed
let's go convex
holep okay import this it's going to be
called where did we export it
to fun
body okay now we just want to run this
we need to do a p install
pesh come on come on come on come on
come
on okay all
right dude I gotta go bro okay okay oh
wait wait
uh dude
what dude what this clearly didn't
install right
then what
bro
um okay let's just do blender this has
got to be easy
this is not going to be easy dude what
the
hell why doesn't the python code
work wait what if I just
do
python
uh
what is this even a real thing bro I
feel like this just didn't
work yeah man this in it's all
up dude it's got to be easy and
Julia bro I bet Steve wrote this
okay let's just do
it
um dude I'm going to be late I dude I
actually don't give a just going to
be late by a minute it's not going to be
add mesh iio
geometry
Basics convex Hull please exist if it
doesn't exist I'm
leaving okay all right that's the end of
the stream we'll finish